<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0 plus SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/2002/04/xhtml-math-svg/xhtml-math-svg-flat.dtd">
<?xml-stylesheet type="text/xsl" href="/oooxhtml/oooxhtml.xsl"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
    <style type="text/css">@page {margin-top:2cm;margin-bottom:2cm;margin-left:2cm;margin-right:2cm;}</style>
    <title>Code review</title>
    <meta name="generator" content="oooxhtml/1.4"/>
    <meta name="HeadURL" content="$HeadURL$"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div class="container text">
      <h1 id="Code_review">
        <a class="anchor" href="#Code_review">Code review</a>
      </h1>
      <h2 id="Definition">
        <a class="anchor" href="#Definition">Definition</a>
      </h2>
      <p>Code review is the process of making pieces of source code available for other developers to review, with the <b>intention</b> of catching bugs and design errors before the code becomes part of the product.</p>
      <h2 id="Types_of_Code_Review">
        <a class="anchor" href="#Types_of_Code_Review">Types of Code Review</a>
      </h2>
      <p>There are two types of code review: pre-commit and post-commit.</p>
      <p><span class="Strong_20_Emphasis">Pre-commit review</span> is a form of code review where code is reviewed <span class="Emphasis">before</span> going into the codebase. In this method, a <a href="https://www.reviewboard.org/docs/manual/3.0/glossary/#term-diff-file">diff file</a> is uploaded to Review Board, which reviewers can comment on, and once there’s approval the code is committed to the repository.</p>
      <p><span class="Strong_20_Emphasis">Post-commit review</span> is where the code is reviewed <span class="Emphasis">after</span> going into the codebase. The code is committed to the repository and, at some point later, the code is reviewed. Any fixes that need to be made are then committed again later.</p>
      <h2 id="Checklist">
        <a class="anchor" href="#Checklist">Checklist</a>
      </h2>
      <ol>
        <li>
          <p>Do these changes meet the business requirements of the task ?</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Do these changes meet the coding quality of company?</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Do these changes have associated tests?</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Has the changelog been updated for these changes?</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Has the application documentation been updated for these changes?</p>
        </li>
      </ol>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
